AI Revamp (#987)
graphprotocol/docs: website/src/pages/en/ai-suite/subgraph-mcp/introduction.mdx

---
title: Subgraph MCP Introduction
sidebarTitle: 'Introduction'
---

> The Subgraph [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) MCP server connects large language models like Claude, Cline, and Cursor directly to Subgraphs on The Graph Network. This integration enables you to explore Subgraph data, run queries, and find relevant deployments using natural language prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subgraph MCP server is an open-source implementation of [Anthropic’s Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction). It presents The Graph’s Subgraph data through a set of MCP tools that can be called by any MCP-compatible client. Through these tools, a client can \–– in a single standardized interface –– search for relevant Subgraphs, inspect their GraphQL schemas, and run queries against specific deployments on The Graph Network. The server itself holds no language model; instead, it translates incoming MCP requests into Subgraph queries and returns the structured results, allowing the client’s own LLM to turn a natural-language prompt into actionable blockchain data. Think of it as a USB-C hub: it standardizes the plug-and-play connection between AI agents and The Graph’s Subgraph ecosystem.
```
